Add MDX optimize option (#7151)
withastro/astro: packages/integrations/mdx/README.md

We suggest [using AST Explorer](https://astexplorer.net/) to play with estree outputs, and trying [`estree-util-visit`](https://unifiedjs.com/explore/package/estree-util-visit/) for searching across JavaScript nodes.

> ### `optimize`

Author: Good catch! I'm thinking of putting this last as a _special feature_ we can point people to turn on if they're having issues. Ideally in the next breaking release when we get good feedback, we can make it the default so the option won't stay here long.

> Whether to optimize the MDX output for faster builds and rendering. An internal rehype plugin will be injected last to transform static parts of the `hast` into [`set:html` properties](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/directives-reference/#sethtml). As this modifies the intermediate `estree` and leaves some generated HTML to be un-escaped, the option is disabled by default.

Author: Good advice. I didn't notice the readme has the `**Type:**` pattern, I'll use that. The type is actually a `boolean | object`. I'll add a few more examples too.

I think there's still some useful information in the technical parts because it explains why the object option exists, but I'll try to move things around.

As the optimizer works within individual MDX files, if you're [passing custom components to an imported MDX content](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/markdown-content/#custom-components-with-imported-mdx), you'll need to configure `customComponentNames` to prevent the optimizer from handling the custom components:

```astro
---
import { Content, components } from '../content.mdx';
import Heading from '../Heading.astro';
---

<Content components={{...components, h1: Heading }} />
```

__`astro.config.mjs`__

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import mdx from '@astrojs/mdx';

export default defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    mdx({
      optimize: {
        // Prevent the optimizer from handling `h1` elements
        customComponentNames: ['h1'],
      },
    })
  ]
});
```

> **Note**

> > If you're using `export const components = { ... }` in your MDX file, the optimizer will automatically detect and add them to `customComponentNames` so you don't have to manually configure it.

Reviewer: I get this, and I think this is fine! But, an explanation above will help the reader understand why they shouldn't want these components optimized. Optimization always sounds like a good thing!  :smile:

We suggest [using AST Explorer](https://astexplorer.net/) to play with estree outputs, and trying [`estree-util-visit`](https://unifiedjs.com/explore/package/estree-util-visit/) for searching across JavaScript nodes.

### `optimize`

- **Type:** `boolean | { customComponentNames?: string[] }`

> This is an optional configuration setting to optimize the MDX output for faster builds and rendering via an internal rehype plugin. This may be useful if you have many MDX content and notice slow builds. However, this option may generate some unescaped HTML, so make sure your site's interactive parts still work correctly after enabling it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an optional configuration setting to optimize the MDX output for faster builds and rendering via an internal rehype plugin. This may be useful if you have many MDX files and notice slow builds. However, this option may generate some unescaped HTML, so make sure your site's interactive parts still work correctly after enabling it.
```
either "many MDX files" or "a large amount of MDX content" works here! Your choice!

Also, I KNOW people are going to ask "what's many? what's a lot?" They ALWAYS do...  :sweat_smile: But, I'm not going to care right now!

This is disabled by default. To enable MDX optimization, add the following to your MDX integration configuration:

__`astro.config.mjs`__

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import mdx from '@astrojs/mdx';

export default defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    mdx({
      optimize: true,
    })
  ]
});
```

#### `customComponentNames`

> - **Type:** `string[]`
> 
> An optional property of `optimize` to prevent the MDX optimizer from handling any [custom components passed to imported MDX content](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/markdown-content/#custom-components-with-imported-mdx).
> 
> You will need to exclude these components from optimization as the optimizer eagerly converts content into a static string, which will break custom components that needs to be dynamically rendered. For example, with the below configuration, the MDX output should be `<Heading>...</Heading>` instead of `"<h1>...</h1>"`.
> 
> ```astro
> ---
> import { Content, components } from '../content.mdx';
> import Heading from '../Heading.astro';
> ---
> 
> <Content components={{...components, h1: Heading }} />
> ```
> 
> Note that if you use `export const components = { ... }` in your MDX file to configure custom components, you don't need to manually configure this option as the optimizer will automatically detect them.
> 
> To configure this option, specify an array of HTML element names that are custom components:
> 
> __`astro.config.mjs`__
> 
> ```js
> import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
> import mdx from '@astrojs/mdx';
> 
> export default defineConfig({
>   integrations: [
>     mdx({
>       optimize: {
>         // Prevent the optimizer from handling `h1` elements
>         customComponentNames: ['h1'],
>       },
>     })
>   ]
> });
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
- **Type:** `string[]`

An optional property of `optimize` to prevent the MDX optimizer from handling any [custom components passed to imported MDX content via the components prop](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/markdown-content/#custom-components-with-imported-mdx).

You will need to exclude these components from optimization as the optimizer eagerly converts content into a static string, which will break custom components that needs to be dynamically rendered. 

For example, the intended MDX output of the following is `<Heading>...</Heading>` in place of every `"<h1>...</h1>"`:

```astro
---
import { Content, components } from '../content.mdx';
import Heading from '../Heading.astro';
---

<Content components={{...components, h1: Heading }} />
```

To configure optimization for this using the `customComponentNames` property, specify an array of HTML element names that should be treated as custom components:

__`astro.config.mjs`__

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import mdx from '@astrojs/mdx';

export default defineConfig({
  integrations: [
    mdx({
      optimize: {
        // Prevent the optimizer from handling `h1` elements
				// These will be treated as custom components
        customComponentNames: ['h1'],
      },
    })
  ]
});
```

Note that if your MDX file [configures custom components using `export const components = { ... }`](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/markdown-content/#assigning-custom-components-to-html-elements), 
 then you do not need to manually configure this option. The optimizer will automatically detect them.
``````

See what you think about this! I think swapping the order and leaving the note at the bottom lets the example not be interrupted.
